All right.
Let's get some practice writing functions with return values and arguments.
We'll have a couple of these challenges or code along.
It's up to you how you want to treat them.
If you want to attempt to write the function on your own I highly recommend that approach.
But if you are completely new to functions and you're a little overwhelmed then maybe take a step back.
Follow along with me and revisit these later on.
So here's the first one.
There's some description some text I wrote.
You can download this if you want and write your own function without looking at my solution.
The goal is to write a function called is valid password and it accepts two different arguments a password
and a user name.
And you can assume both of them are strings.
And this function should return true or false.
It's a boolean method.
If the password meets all of the requirements which we'll go into in a moment it should return true.
If any of them fail then it should not be valid.
So we return false.
So the password needs to be at least eight characters.
It cannot contain any spaces and it cannot contain the user name.
So if my username is dog lover which is what I have here this is an invalid password.
It contains that text.
It's not as safe.
This is still not a very good set of rules for a password in general but it's good enough for our function
examples.
So no Username Name that cannot be contained anywhere in the string in the middle of the beginning.
Also we need to make sure at least eight characters.
So another example would be is valid password and then if the password was only Hello one that would
be false because it's not long enough as would this because it does not have a space.
We don't need to return any specific reason for why it's invalid so don't return something like password
too short.
It should be a Boolean true or false.
So go ahead and try this if you'd like pause the video and then let's write a solution.
So I'll start off by defining my function is valid password to parameters.
The first one will be password.
The second one is the user name.
You could do it the other way around if you want.
I'm just following the pattern I laid out here but you just need to make sure you have two parameters
and give them meaningful names.
So for calling this one password then we better treat it as password.
So we have three different things for checking for.
Let's start with the length of the password.
So we need a conditional.
We need to check if password length is greater than or equal to eight.
If that's the case it is valid.
So we could write it this way but it's a little trickier because we need to make sure all of these are
valid in order for the whole thing to be valid.
So we need all of these to be true in order for us to return true.
So I couldn't just say if password length is greater than or equal to 8 return true.
Because that might work if the password is eight characters like that but one of those characters could
be a space at which point it's invalid.
So I need to make sure all of them are true.
So I could chain them all together with and I'm not a fan of this approach for a bunch of pieces together
like this could get quite long.
We have to check if their space spaces we have to check if there's user name the user username is contained
in the password.
So I'm going to reverse my logic and say if password length is less than eight return false because
only one of these needs to be untrue needs to be false in order for the entire password to be invalid.
So we'll just check is it too short.
Then we know automatically return false.
Then I'll do another one.
Are there spaces.
So if password and then how do we check if there is a space in a string or any character in that string.
I'll just do index of the space character and remember index of will give us negative 1.
If that character is not in there so there's no space in a sd s and I get negative 1.
So if password that index of is not negative one that means we have a problem we want it to be a negative
one in order for the password to be valid so we'll return false here that means there is a space and
then how do we check if it contains the user name.
Basically the exact same thing password that index of username so username could be dog lover and dog
lover is contained in this string we can use INDEX OF with multiple characters I could do a sd s index
of a SD and it tells us it starts at index 0.
If I do s d s set terrible string to use but you can see it starts at index 1 so it's not only use for
a single character at a time if this is the case we will return false.
Otherwise we can return true and we don't need an LS We also don't need to do if and else if and where
to else if you could but since we're returning as soon as one of them is true if this is true we return
we're done we don't have to do if and else If but we'll refactor this in a moment or we'll talk about
a different way of writing this in a moment but let's just make sure it works so I'm going to try calling
this let's do is valid password of something that is too short so a SD like that and then some user
name it doesn't really matter we get false OK now let's do another example where there's a space it
could be let's do one that's long enough but there's a space in there and then some user name we still
get false and now let's do our final test case where we have a long enough password like chicken one
two three four and the user name is chicken that's not allowed.
So we get false.
But if I no longer include chicken in my password.
Now instead change it to chicken spelled that way.
We finally get true.
So we're now meeting the requirements.
This is OK and I actually kind of like writing it this way.
It's very explicit and clear what's going on.
We could write it using a single conditional.
It would just get really long.
We can link them together and say if one of these is true.
So if this or this or this return false so we could do that.
I'll duplicate the function and rewrite it just so you can see what it would look like.
So we could rewrite it as if and then the first thing would be password length is less than eight or
password.
That index of space not empty string but space is not equal to negative one or password that index of
user name is not equal to negative one.
If that's the case if one of those is true return false or more if one or more is true and then return
true at the end that means everything is valid and this works.
I would definitely just want to format it like we have here make it easier to see one long line.
It's not so pretty.
Let's make sure it still works.
Let me comment out the original one here refresh and tried again.
So this one is valid.
This one contained chicken which is the username so it's invalid.
This one had a space in it invalid.
And this one was too short.
Also invalid.
So this is also nice this is not too bad.
Another approach you could take just by the way if you are bored with this or you feel like you've got
a good grasp of it.
Go ahead and move on.
I probably don't even need to tell you that but I will show you another approach.
What we could do is make each of these into a variable all of these return true or false so we get rid
of this.
Just gonna delete everything for a moment and I could make a variable here.
What would this be called.
Maybe is too short or too short.
So const two short equals password length less than eight const and then this one would be has spaces
or has space equals this line.
So these variables I'm making three of them are going to be true or false boolean values password that
index of user names so we'll call this const as a short way of saying this contains user name.
How about two similar
like that and then we can use those to make a conditional if too short or has space or two similar.
Return false.
And I'll do this on one line.
There's nothing wrong with that.
I don't need those curly braces.
We've seen that once or twice for nice and short conditionals.
All we need is one line of code return false.
Otherwise return true.
OK.
It should still work.
That's invalid.
This one with the space in it super long space still invalid.
Let's go with a different username like dog and then a password that contains dog.
I love Dog.
One two three.
Still false.
But now if I change username to be cat password no longer contains it.
It's true and we've got yet another thing that we could change.
And to be clear here I'm not saying that this is the best evolution or that this version will be the
better version.
I just want to explore some possibilities here.
So what we're doing right now is checking a bunch of conditions while it's a single condition that contains
a couple of hours.
And if this is true we return false.
If it's not true we return true.
So we want this to be false so that we return true if that makes sense.
So we could invert this instead of saying if it's too short or it has spaces or it's too similar to
username return false.
We could say if it's not too short.
If it doesn't have space and it's not too similar.
Return true.
And we could write that like this function is valid password we can keep these variables but remember
anytime I have a variable here you could just replace it with a condition so we could say if it's not
too short and does not have space and it's not too similar.
We want to return true.
Otherwise return false and it should still work fine if I refresh over there.
This one is valid but if I now change this to be love as my username it's false.
If I just change the user name to something and then add a space false and if the password is too short
we get false okay.
Now this also is good but we can improve it even one more degree shouldn't say improve but we can shorten
it if you want it to.
We're saying if this is true.
Return true.
If this is false return false.
We could just say return this.
This evaluates to true or false.
So I could get rid of that return.
This this whole thing will evaluate to TRUE or FALSE and then we return that value so that's false.
Let's do a longer one.
That's true because it does not contain this username.
I had a space.
We've seen this a bunch of times by now.
The logic still works and I'll stop here.
We could continue to flip flop and change the type of logic we're doing.
We could instead of making a variable called too short and checking if the password is too short.
We could go the other way around and check is this password long enough.
In which case we'd be checking password at length greater than or equal to 8 and then we could change
our logic down here.
The point is we could continue to alter the logic.
I'm not going to stress about it looking at all of them.
I think any of them is good.
Even this first one which is a lot longer in terms of the number of lines.
It's still very easy to see what's going on.
A lot of people obsess especially students who are starting out obsessed with writing compact super
short one liner functions and really trying to do hacky cool things and that's great.
It's always fun to see how short you can make something but often that comes at the expense of readability
and expressiveness.
Just being able to understand it.
If someone walked into this code or walked into this file and needed to understand what was going on.
All of these are pretty clear and these in particular I like with these variables.
Some people would say as you don't need those variables you're wasting memory.
It's really a miniscule waste of memory if you want to call it that and it's not worth stressing about.
But pick whichever one you're comfortable with.
I just want to show a couple different versions.